And yes, my purpose tonight is to both wake up this Congress, and alert the American people that this is no ordinary moment either. 

Not since President Lincoln and the Civil War have freedom and democracy been under assault here at home as they are today. 

What makes our moment rare is that freedom and democracy are under attack, both at home and overseas, at the very same time. 

Overseas, Putin of Russia is on the march, invading Ukraine and sowing chaos throughout Europe and beyond. 

If anybody in this room thinks Putin will stop at Ukraine, I assure you, he will not. 

But Ukraine can stop Putin if we stand with Ukraine and provide the weapons it needs to defend itself. That is all Ukraine is asking. They are not asking for American soldiers. 

In fact, there are no American soldiers at war in Ukraine. And I am determined to keep it that way. 

But now assistance for Ukraine is being blocked by those who want us to walk away from our leadership in the world. 

It wasn't that long ago when a Republican President, Ronald Reagan, thundered, "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall." 

Now, my predecessor, a former Republican President, tells Putin, "Do whatever the hell you want." 

A former American President actually said that, bowing down to a Russian leader. 

It's outrageous. It's dangerous. It's unacceptable. 

America is a founding member of NATO the military alliance of democratic nations created after World War II to prevent war and keep the peace.  

Today, we've made NATO stronger than ever. 

We welcomed Finland to the Alliance last year, and just this morning, Sweden officially joined NATO, and their Prime Minister is here tonight. 

Mr. Prime Minister, welcome to NATO, the strongest military alliance the world has ever known.

I say this to Congress: we must stand up to Putin. Send me the national security bill. History is literally watching. The United States walks away, it will put Ukraine at risk.

Europe is at risk. The free world will be at risk, emboldening others who wish to do us harm. My message to President Putin is simple: We will not walk away.

We will not bow down. I will not bow down. In a literal sense, history is watching. History is watching. So here tonight in the same chamber where we were attacked, we will make it clear: We will not be intimidated.

The economic plan is working. We're standing up against Putin's aggression. And we're standing with Ukraine. We're standing with our allies.

America is rising. We're the only nation that has emerged from every crisis stronger than we entered it. That's what we're going to do again.
